---
title: "MCP9808"
linkTitle: "MCP9808"
weight: 4
description: >
  Microchip Temperature Sensor
---


## Device Details

* Device addresses:
24,
25,
26,
27,
28,
29,
30,
31
* Address type 7-bit

## Registers

### configuration
**Configuration Register**
* Address 1
* 16-bytes

The MCP9808 has a 16-bit Configuration register (CONFIG) that
allows the user to set various functions for a robust temperature
monitoring system.
Bits 10 through 0 are used to select the temperature alert output
hysteresis, device shutdown or Low-Power mode, temperature boundary
and critical temperature lock, and temperature Alert output
enable/disable.
In addition, Alert output condition (output set for TUPPER and
TLOWER temperature boundary or TCRIT only), Alert output status
and Alert output polarity and mode (Comparator Output or Interrupt
Output mode) are user-configurable.


## Fields
### #/registers/configuration/limitHysteresis
**TUPPER and TLOWER Limit Hysteresis bits**

* Bits 10:9


#### Field values

* **0**: 0°C (power-up default)
* **1**: +1.5°C
* **2**: +3.0°C
* **3**: +6.0°C

This bit can not be altered when either of the Lock bits are set
(bit 6 and bit 7). This bit can be programmed in Shutdown mode.


### #/registers/configuration/shutdownMode
**Shutdown Mode bit**

* Bit 8


#### Field values

* **0**: Continuous conversion (power-up default)
* **1**: Shutdown (Low-Power mode)

In shutdown, all power-consuming activities are disabled, though
all registers can be written to or read. This bit cannot be set
to ‘1’ when either of the Lock bits is set (bit 6 and bit 7).
However, it can be cleared to ‘0’ for continuous conversion while
locked.




## License

_MCP9808 version 0.1.0. Generated from Cyanobyte Codegen version 0.0.2._

Contact [Nick Felker](mailto:felker@google.com).

Copyright Google Inc. 2019. Published under
[Apache-2.0](https://spdx.org/licenses/Apache-2.0.html#licenseText).